# P1

## What to expect? An action-based PoV.

For a debugger there are some essential functinalities you expect.

- set and remove break point
- control program execution
- switch among thread
- navigate among code
- inspect, chase value change
- chase call stack
- inspect registers
- inspect memory


### Set and remove break point

-`b <file:line>`: set a break point. It's faster to use a frontend like cgdb to set breakpoint. You can navigate to the line and press space.

- `clear`: delete all break points. Again it's faster to use a frontend.

- `d <num>`: delete break point #num.

### Control program execution
These commands are what online tutorials talk about the most. They are very typical funtions a debugger provides, but only using them alone is far from enough tho. You're not only interested in the program execution, but also do some value inspection to help you to analyse.

- `s`: a single step, step into function.
- `n`: next line, skip function.
- `c`: continue until hit a breakpoint.


### Inspect, Chase value change

- `p <expresion>`: simply evaluate the expr and print the value.
- `p/x <expression>`: print the value in hex decimal form. It's generally useful for cases that hex number makes sense, but typically for inspecting addresses.


#### What value we want to look at?

## Some extra stuffs

- catch conditions
- interact with environment
-

####

#### Interact with environment

- `show env` show all env
- `set env X = v` set environment variable X to v
- `unset env X` dual of set env

- `set args` set program arguments
- `show args` show all args. it's a string.

- `run > outfile` redirect output to outfile. If you want to inspect outside

- `kill` kill the current child process.



#### chase call stack
- `bt`: print back trace. the vanila version only prints function calls. The most recent call at the top.
- `bt -full`: print back trace and all local variables of each frame.

- `f <frame-num>`:

