# P2

## What do we have? An data-basd PoV

GDB progives some debugging specific facilities, break point is just one of them. We can try to understand how to debug efficiently by understanding what they do for us.

### Facilities

- breakpoints
- checkpoints
- tracepoints
- skip
- mem
- display
- core dump


- breakpoint: A breakpoint mark a location in the source code. The program will pause when it comes to the break point, so you can investigate the surrounding context. For small programs breakpoint is all that needed.

    - `info breakpoints` list breakpoints
    - `break <file:num>` break at file:num
    - `delete <breakpoint-id>` remove breakpoint
    - `clear` remove all check points. It's helpful your bps get too messy.

- checkpoint: Creating a snapshot of the program state, and allows you to go back later. This allows you to achieve time travelling debug. One of the annoying thing of working with gdb is sometimes it takes a lot of efforts to reach a breakpoin. And if you miss some step, you need to start the whole thing all over again. Checkpoint is one of the tool helps you to deal with that.
    - `info checkpoints` list checkpoints
    - `retsart <checkpoint-id>` restart from the checkpoint
    - `delete <checkpoint-id>` delete checkpoint
    - PS: Linux will randomize address space when spawn a new process, meaning you can't set a breakpoint b/c the absolute address changed. However if you set a checkpoint, you create a copy of the process, thus get symbols at the same address.

- tracepoint: Set trace point with arbitray expression that will evaluate when a tracepoint is reached.

- skip:


- mem
- display


### Conditions
- catch exec
- catch fork
- catch catch
- catch signal
- catch rethrow
